welcome good afternoon thank you for
coming to my talk on VPC design my name
is Rob Alexander and yes my secret was
real this morning i am the CEO of a
major American bank by day by night I'm
a solutions architect for AWS out of
Seattle we've been doing this talk for
three years now i reinvent and we always
started off with this slide and there's
a reason for that everything I'm talking
about today was built by you so I base
this talk off of customer designs that i
have seen over the last year that I find
particularly interesting but are in use
and in production use so nothing here is
a theoretical and this is a 400 level
session so i will make some assumptions
that some of the things you're seeing up
here you already know about so that you
know what the difference between a
internet gateway in a virtual private
gateway are what a route table is and
where you would assign it you know why
enhanced networking is important what
the difference between a network akal
and a security group is when i started
talking to customers about VPC design
now going on over three years ago and
we'd often start with this and they
would say what do I do with this three
years now later my conversations are
very different and I usually start
sitting down with customers saying how
do I build this
but we'll get there let's first just
zoom in and start with one so here we
have a stock standard VPC in a region
deployed across multiple availability
zones we have public subnets and private
subnets the only difference being any
instances deployed in the public subnet
will get it automatically assigned
public IP and the private subnets are
obviously private IP is only and this
first VPC is going to be dedicated to a
public-facing web application so we're
going to deploy an elastic load balancer
across both availability zones and we'll
go ahead and label these subnets
according to what kind of things that
are going to be in these subnets or slap
a cider on there and I do want to remind
you to keep in mind that there is always
this virtual router that sits in the
virtual private cloud that dictates the
routing between all the subnets which by
default allows all the subnets to talk
to each other and that's all facilitated
by the dot one address of every subnets
CIDR block now obviously this will be
public facing so we're going to attach
an Internet gateway and we're going to
create a route for the public subnets to
be able to use this internet gateway so
their default route will be pointing to
that Internet gateway and now the Yale
bees can both talk out and be reached
from outside the VPC according to their
security group and network ACL
configuration now I will point out here
that the Internet gateway is a highly
available and horizontally scaled
infrastructure this is not a
physical thing that you have to worry
about facilitating bandwidth or
availability for that's not your concern
so what about these instances that are
still in the private subnet how do
we facilitate connectivity for them
outside of the VPC they don't have any
route to the Internet gateway and they
don't have any public ip's so first
we'll say you know what why do we want
to go outside what's out there so the
first thing is public AWS API endpoints
so if you're making auto scaling calls
from inside or you're launching
CloudFormation or you're even
making ec2 API calls to
for example move an elastic network
interface all those need to be able to
reach out of the VPC and touch our API
endpoints that are on the public network
regional services so s3 DynamoDB Kinesis
SNS lambda those all exist is regional
public services that are outside your
VPC and same with third-party services
whether that's you know New Relic or
slack or data dog or any of the platform
services that are also out there in AWS
they obviously have to get out of your
VPC to reach them so the most standard
way to do this is to deploy what we call
a NAT instance that will front all of
your private instances and provide that
connectivity so we deploy them out here
in the public subnets it obviously has a
public IP that's single public IP fronts
the private connectivity for all the
instances that are talking to and we do
that by giving the private subnet route
table a default route of the not
instance itself and so now all these
private instances can go through that
NAT and egress the VPC the problem is as
your traffic grows and your instances
grow obviously there's going to be a
little problem with a single instance
facilitating this connectivity and you
both have a single point of failure and
a network bottleneck in this instance so
how do we make scalable and available in
NAT first I'd ask what do you want
out of the nat because if you are
putting high bandwidth demanding
applications behind the NAT then
you're going to have problems so my
advice is always to cordon off those
types of workloads that need high
bandwidth and give them their own egress
out of the VPC so put them in public
subnets lock them down so they can't be
accessed from the outside but at least
they'll have their full instance
bandwidth capacity out of the VPC and
they won't be constrained by a NAT
instance now there's obviously still a
purpose for Nats there's still lots of
reasons that are beyond high bandwidth
applications and so what we're going to
have here this is our first stage in our
evolving design requirements you're
going to see this slide over and over as
we work through all these use cases this
list of requirements is going to grow
and grow so this first list of
requirements is that we want public
subnets for those high bandwidth public
talkers we want private subnets that
still have access to public AWS network
we want highly available NAT and for now
we're going to have one AWS account it's
going to be one VPC and it's going to
be in one region so we're going to take
a little detour from v pc and talk about
some new ec2 features that you might not
have heard of yet but will help
facilitate this HA NAT
solution and specifically these features
are the amazon ec2 auto recovery service
and the ec2 auto reboot service so these
are going to give us some automatic
recovery features that did not exist
before so over the years ec2 has built
up this very robust framework of status
checks that checks everything on
your instance and the physical server
hosting your instance so this checks
everything from the actual hardware the
software running the underlying
hypervisor and your instance the
networking and power related to that
instance so this whole series of status
checks all rolls up and surface itself
to you in the form of to CloudWatch per
instance metrics and those are one
metric for the system itself failing and
one metric for the instance failing now
these have existed for a while but you
couldn't really do anything up until
very recently with them you could
generate alerts you could launch a new
instance or replace the failed instances
but beyond that your options are pretty
limited but what's new is these new ec2
actions that you can take specifically
reboot and recover so that now if an
instant status check fails you can set
it to instantly reboot so if it core
dumps or if someone downs the virtual
interface or anything that goes on wrong
with instances itself it will
automatically reboot if the system
itself anything any of those underlying
checks fail and the system becomes
impaired it will automatically recover
to new hardware and when this happens
all of these things stay the same and
this is the key before whenever you
replace something your instanceid would
be different so there were all these
clever solutions for HA NAT that had
you rear out route tables or movie and
eyes and those were all dependent on the
fact that the instanceid would change
when the new instance came in and
replaced it but with recovery it stays
the same so there's a few things about
auto recovery that you should keep in
mind first of all it only applies to the
system status check so that's why we're
not doing recovery on the instance
failure it's only applies to newer
instance types and it is a you cannot
use the local instance store so you
can't even have it mounted today so this
is very much an EBS backed service and
here's how you set it up it's very easy
as straight from the cloud which console
we're just creating alarm based upon
that metric the system failed check
we're setting our threshold for two
consecutive periods of one minute you
can be more aggressive if you like and
the action is to recover and make sure
you choose your period as a minute
because that can be five minutes and you
obviously don't want that and same with
reboot just make sure you choose the
right metric and choose the action to
reboot so how does it work so we've got
one NAT per AZ the private subnets in that
AZ their subnet routing tables all
pointing to that one NAT in their AZ
so they're lined up if the NAT itself
has problems and it fails auto recovery
kicks in and within about one to four
minutes the instance is replaced and
it's completely the same on new hardware
and traffic obviously starts flowing
again I say one to four minutes because
depends on the nature of the failure if
the nick itself fails it's going to be
longer but if it's some other ancillary
issue it could be a lot faster so auto
recovery and reboot run outside the
instance itself so it's nothing you put
on it on the instance so the NAT
itself can be anything you want
you can use the Amazon Linux net on me
or pick you know picking out any net
that's out on the marketplace that you
use today and familiar with and if you
actually have to scale so the limitation
here is the route table itself you know
I put one NAT per AZ but that's not hard
requirement you can put many Nats in AZ
the constraint is you can only have one
route to one instance that is your NAT
for that routing table so you could have
you know here i have three route tables
per AZ for my private subnets and each of
those were out tables are pointing to an
that and you can scale that but if
you're doing this come talk to me these
workloads I don't we don't see a lot of
these so I'd like to hear the use case
you know your first beverage of choice
is on me so here we are we got a
public-facing web app deployed up in the
region in our first VPC and now we're
going to consider our second VPC which
is some internal corporate applications
we'd like to move up into a private VPC
and connect through a private IPSec
tunnel so I get asked this all the time
should I have one VPC should I
put everything in one VPC treat it like
I treat my current data center or should
I have many VPCs and you know my answer
is always yes but unfortunately there is
not a hard and fast answer for that
question but fortunately there are a lot
of considerations and use cases to think
about what is it you want to do with VPC
so here's some of the very common use
cases so application isolation is kind
of like what we were just talking about
there's very good use cases for not
having everything talk to each other so
VPCs by definition or isolated networks
that cannot talk to each other so
without you facilitating it so
application isolation is the first one a
scope of audit containment so if you
also have audit requirements that say
very specifically who can get to what
the VPC offers a very logical isolation
compartment and same with
risk level separations
if you have HIPAA workloads or PCI
workloads very sensitive confidential
information the VPC becomes like a
risk container for those
applications separate production from
non-production so I have some customers
who have literally thousands of
development teams that all deployed in
the same VPC would clobber each other
and then these are the problems
they're experiencing currently in their
data center so I usually break it down
and see why would you want to reproduce
that in the cloud separate your
production from non-production get blast
radius containment and then multi-tenant
isolation obviously if you have
different customers and you're managing
a platform you want to keep them
separate and isolated so here are some
of the considerations on top of the use
cases so obviously as soon as you start
up multiple VPCs you need to know if
these things need to talk to each other
and how they want to talk to each other
and most of the rest of this talk is
focused on this kind of VPC design of
inter VPC communication a lot of the
use cases i mentioned go hand in hand
with having separate AWS accounts that's
usually part of the same conversation so
you know no upfront that you're going to
be talking about separate AWS accounts
which falls right into the next one is
have upfront your considerations for
your identity and access management
resource permissions because that design
is going to dictate how you manage all
these VPC so you need to be able to have
operational control over many VPCs so
you need to know upfront you're going to
be having common operational
roles applied to every account you
create and then the limits are there
know them most of them are soft
the few that are hard will call out when
we get to them so here we go now we want
an internal company app that's
completely private so we have a
requirement now that there's
no IGW no public IPs attached to this
BBC so this is what it would look like
so we create a virtual private gateway
which facilitates the private ipsec VPN
tunnel termination on these private
subnets we create a route to your
corporate CIDR blocks that points to
this virtual private gateway and
anything you deploy up now into this
private cloud
can reach your internal network but you
know there's a lot of things out there
they want to use an s3 of course is a
very common data store for applications
so your developers want to actually use
these services while they're in this
internal private VPC so how do you do
that so this is the end my friends so
our design requirements are evolving so
now we have VPN connectivity to private
only VPC we want no egress in the VPC to
any public networks we want private IP
access to Amazon s3 we want very content
specific access controls and we're still
with one account one VPC in one region
at this point so with those requirements
in the past this is actually how you
would have to facilitate that
communication this is not ideal now this
is a long way around to get back to s3
so fortunately over the summer we
launched a new feature called VPC
endpoints so VPC endpoints provide
exactly what our requirements design are
asking for so there's no IGW involved
there's no NAT you're not facilitating
communication through an app there's no
public IPs involved the service is free
and there's very robust access control
which we'll talk about and I would like
to point out here that we made this very
clear from the beginning when we
launched this feature this is just the
start so S3 is the start of the end
points so keep up keep a close close
attention to how these are used because
you're going to see this more and more
not just s3 but more services coming the
future so how to actually create them so
here's the actual command line call to
create endpoint and this is on a private
subnet and you actually associate it
with a route table so you don't actually
go in and create the route you associate
it and that route is created for you
automatically and it's actually not
modifiable so the destination is a
prefix-list for the service itself and
we'll get to what actual
prefix-list is and the target is the
endpoint and now I also did this to my
public subnet that already had an
Internet gateway and this is
perfectly fine just demonstrating how this
would work so obviously the prefix-list is
going to be a more specific route to the
blocks that make up S3 in the region so
it's going to prefer that route over the
default route for S3 but be careful here
because the service is regional so this
would only apply to traffic going to s3
in that region if you were trying to
reach a bucket and for example us-east-1
that would go over the Internet gateway
so what's a prefix-list?
these are very cool so it was very hard
in the past to keep track of the actual
IPs that made up S3 they were constantly
changing people place very elaborate games
to keep track of what S3 was in IP space
prefix-lists abstract all of that
so it's a logical route destination that
dynamically translates into the space
that makes up S3 so you don't have to
worry about tracking it and obviously
these ranges are going to change over
time but the prefix list itself will
will keep that abstraction so again
these will come as more and more
surfaces more and more services come up
as endpoints and you can actually use
them in security groups so you can lock
down the actual instance is that can use
the service the VPC endpoint so what
about access control so there's multiple
layers of access control when you're
talking about endpoints so the first
place that we can apply a policy here is
on the endpoint itself so what we're
going to do is apply this policy on the
endpoint that has very specific
requirements of what bucket I can reach
so in this case it's a backups bucket so
I can only get and put objects to
backups so when a request goes out
to S3 over the endpoint route from the subnet
that policy is going to be hit its going
to check if you're going to the backups
bucket and if you are off you go
now that's on the endpoint
you can also apply a policy on the
bucket itself which says it's very
specifically what end point you're
coming from and what VPC are coming from
as a condition for access so in this
case we're saying traffic can only come
from a very specific end point so it's
going to check is this request coming
from this VPC end point and if it is let
it through so we got multiple layers of
control access so we recap real quick
you have the route table itself so you
associate the subnet to give it access
then you have the VPC endpoint policy
itself you have the bucket policy and
the last one is you can apply security
groups within that subnet to restrict
certain instances in that subnet from
actually using the endpoint to so
multiple layers so let's see them in
action so in this case we've got two
buckets out there and all of our
internet apps want to be able to back up
to s3 and store their data so we create
an endpoint for them but give them a
route to the endpoint and we have the
policies there that allow them to back
up but this compliance application is
separate and its requirements are a
little bit more strict it needs to store
its content in its own bucket so we
create another endpoint for the
compliance application so the
restriction is you can only have one
route per route table to a service of an
endpoint so in this case you could have
facilitated this all through one
endpoint but we keep it separate for the
application requirements and as things
grow and grow and scale like I described
igw the internet gateway the endpoints
the same horizontally scaled massively
available it's not something you are
worrying about from a bandwidth performance perspective
so what about Amazon Linux this was one of my
customers these cases is that they had
this requirement they also needed to be
able to update their
Amazon Linux AMIs, keep latest patches and builds on them
so there's two buckets per region that are required for amazon
Linux to work those buckets are repo bucket
and a package bucket
so in this case on the
compliance endpoint we've added those buckets to
the policy list so those two
and we've done the same for the other endpoint
and so now both endpoints can access both
buckets and again you know why did I do
this on both endpoints it goes back
to the constraint I couldn't have added
another route in those tables for those
buckets so I mean I'm sorry another
endpoint to create just for those
buckets so a few things to remember
about endpoints the endpoint in the
bucket itself have to be in the same region
amazon DNS needs to be enabled for the VPC that's for
the prefix-list resolution that doesn't mean you can't
use your own dns you just need to have
it enabled source IPs to S3 will be
private so if you have any source IP
restrictions on your buckets today
those won't work because those are obviously
restricting against public IPs you need
to use the restriction of either the VPC
itself or the VPC endpoint and don't
forget about s3 dependent services so
there's lots of our services so EMR
redshift they all have s3 dependencies
so when you go locking things down
make sure you consider those
so we've got our public-facing web app and now we have
our internal only app with a VPC endpoint
so what's next
this is usually a part where my customers need to start
planning for mass population explosion
because in my experience this is what
usually happens and this is not a fun by
staffie creating VPN tunnels,
creating BGP-peers,
propagating border routes, these are non-trivial exercises
and this is very impactful to operations
spinning up VPCs is very easy
but this other stuff businesses is
impactful and to emphasize that let's
just zoom in on one of those VPN
connections and see what we do for a true HA VPN connection
so here we have the VPC up in the region and we have
an HA VPN pair on your end to customer
gateways so each time you create a VPN
connection into AWS to the VGW you get
two tunnels - two unique public IP endpoints
that terminate in separate AZs
so that's for redundancy on our end if
something needs to be down do you have
another tunnel to route over
but that doesn't solve for your end
so you need to use two customer gateways to solve
for redundancy on your end that means for
every one of those connections we were
representing you actually have four
tunnels and here we have the BGP
announcements up so you're getting the
BGP from us that's the VPC block itself
and our ASN and to the VPC itself you're
advertising you know whatever your
internal network space is you want the
VPC to know about and you're
facilitating a multipath on your
internal network through your
IGP of choice or whatever it might be
could be iBGP as I have here ospf but
you're facilitating this equal cost
route back up to the VPC
and what's new as a very recently is
that you can reuse your customer
gateways so this was a huge headache in the past
when you were facilitating many tunnels you were having
to we would give you the same two public
IP addresses as the endpoints the
tunnels in the region which means you
are wasting public IPs for every single
VPN connection you were creating that's
no longer the case so now every time you
create a VPN connection you get unique
public endpoints and if you're not
seeing that behavior that means you're
on a legacy VGW so unfortunately what
that means is you need to kill your
current VGW and create a new one
and attach it and you'll start seeing that behavior
so back to missile command so
things are still coming down hard
and all of these things are starting to
stress your bandwidth because not only
are they going in and out from the
people that are using all these VPCs
they have to reach back into your
internal network for a lot of the
corporate services that they depend on
so named services directory services
centralized logging and security all
these things are still on your internal
network so our next round of evolving
design requirements and this is more
about centralizing that network
connectivity so getting it down to a set
number of connections that you manage a
steady state in your network footprint
and then centralize all the management
all the security controls all the access
to common services
but that's what it's about give
developers freedom to do what they need
to do within their own VPCs but have
centralized management of actually what
goes in and out of the VPC so now we're
moving out to many AWS accounts many VPCs
who are still in one region so
here's the freedom model hub and spoke
with peering so we facilitated this by
moving up these shared services up into
a dedicated hub
shared services VPC and we've used VPC
peering to peer all of these spoke
applications to the centralized hub and
this is a one-to-one relationship so
peering works within the region its
private IP connectivity from one VPC to
another and you'll notice here that
we've centralized the network
connectivity so there's just one central
pipe up and the shared services is the
only VPC that has any egress so it's the
only one with the igw and it's the only
one with a VPC endpoint
so let's zoom in on the hub and one spoke and just see
how that looks so here we have up on the
left spoke on the right we've created a
peer in connection between these two but
to actually have bits flow between them
we need to create routes that actually
use this peering connection so here we
have on the private subnet in the spoke
we've created a private route table for
the destination of the specific subnet
of the shared services so you can be
very specific in what you give access to
over the peering connection it doesn't
have to be the entire space of each VPC
it can be all the way down to a single
host if you want so here it's one subnet
but on the opposite end we give them a
route for the entire space on the spokes
side so now the spoke will be able to
reach all the shared services in that
subnet and again it's all private
connectivity but what about if this
spoke wants to reach back into your
internal corporate network I can add
this route here that says the
CIDR block of your corporate network
use the peering connection to get there
but when the hub VPC sees it and the hub VPC
tries to egress a packet that has a
source IP that's not in its CIDR
range it's going to drop it and
that's because peering is not transitive
so if I peer with you and your VPC
I am able to communicate with a CIDR block
in that VPC but I'm not able to
communicate with any other relationships
you have already so I can't go through
you to get to anything else that you
know about and that's by design
so what if we actually have this require
we want centralized connectivity from
edge to edge we want to provide some
kind of reach back into our internal
network and the most common way to do
that is to deploy a proxy so to
facilitate HTTPS communication
deploy a proxy in that hub VPC
configure the instances to use that proxy
and then the proxy itself will terminate that
connection from the spoke and turn
around and facilitate it now this proxy
can be whatever you want it to be
it can do security filtering and access control
whatever that centralized
mechanism is but it can function as the
the turning point between
spokes and communication back to your
core network and same with leveraging
the internet egress or the VPC endpoint
s3 it's the proxy itself is the only one
that has routes to all those things so
let's zoom in on that a little bit
greater detail acute so you can see how
this is built up within the VPC
so we're going to depict the building up of layers
but I want to emphasize that back to the the core virtual router
from the beginning is that all these
subnets by default can talk to each
other so they're they're really flat
so the layers depend upon you properly
implementing security groups, NACLs and route tables
to create these layers
so we start with an internal elastic load balancer
so this load balancers private IPs only and
it's backed by an auto scaling proxy
fleet that is the only thing that has
the routes out it's the only thing that
has public IPs and we have very strict
security controls up here
so the only thing that can talk
to the proxy fleet is the load balancer
the only thing that can talk to the load balancer is those spokes
that you have deemed the rights
to talk to them so in this case is
private subnet is configured to use the
load balancers its proxy out you go and
back down to an internal network and
it would work the same for facilitating access out
to public services
or the Internet
or again all the way to S3 through the endpoint
now how does that work in reverse
so say you have your operational
staff on site and they need to reach
into all these different spokes it's the
same process you need to have some kind
of jump host, Baston, centralized
management administration servers that
exist in the hub that you can land on
and then go on to the spokes so here we
see going in landing
on the bastion host and then
jumping off to the spokes to manage them
but you could also facilitate the use of the proxy
for your your internal staff too so if
these desktops and laptops were
configured to use the proxy they also
could leverage a private connectivity
through your VPC endpoint to s3 so a few
things to keep in mind with with the
freedom model you you need to use IAM
to restrict the accounts that are
running the spokes obviously if those
spoke accounts can attach an igw or
delete the peering connection you're
going to have problems so you take away
all the rights to network control and
give that to an operations role which is
the second point so you have a central
NetOps IAM role that you apply to every
account so they are the ones that can
manage the actual network connectivity
make sure you enable AWS CloudTrail
and AWS config for all your
accounts so if you haven't do that now
CloudTrail gives you an audit log of
all your API calls so if anything
happens it shouldn't be happening at a
time that it's not supposed to happen
you'll know about it and you can create
alarms and generate you know automatic
reactions to those alarms and same with
AWS Config it keeps it like a time
machine snapshot of changes of all your
configurations all the dependencies of
all your network components as they
change over time and you can see where
things change especially when they break
so here we are we have a product aisle
we have a dev hub and to just illustrate
the flexibility appearing fossil
created data services hub so this will
be like this contains shared data
repositories common data bases that are
accessed over a lot of different
applications and you can see we can have
spokes that are appeared with multiple
hubs I mean there's no restrictions here
and how you use peering and you know the
data services hub is going to need named
services that exist in the shared
services hub over in prod so it's period
with that too so what about accounting
for all this traffic now you've got all
these hubs and all these accounts and
all this network traffic going around
how do you enforce that the security
controls you've actually set up are
working and you know how you get some
semblance of who's talking to who and
how much talking they're doing so our
next step in evolving design
requirements so we want to be able to
audit a VPC network security
configuration want to validate that what
we've configured is actually working we
want to be able to analyze all our
network usage we want to automate
responses to any alarm so whenever
something goes wrong and we don't expect
we want automatic reactions to that and
now we're moving into many accounts in
many VPCs in many regions
so VPC flow logs was launched over the summer
this is another new feature
it is very similar to netflow if you've used
netflow in your data center router infrastructure
the key features of flow logs are that it's agentless
it's nothing on the instance itself that needs to be installed
it's enabled at ENI level or a subnet level or for
the entire VPC itself and all the data
is streamed to CloudWatch logs so that
means you get all the durability of
CloudWatch logs
but you also get the full feature set
so filtering the ability to you know query and search
across your logs to create unique
metrics based on the data in your logs
and then to create alarms from those
metrics that can trigger automatic
actions and here's just a quick example
of what you can do with flow log so back
to our compliance app
we take for granted that within a
private subnet we should know everything
that's going on in private subnet so
anything that's outside that scope we
want to know about it so any rejects we
want to know what those are
so we create a Flow Log group on the rejects
it goes into CloudWatch logs we create a
metric filter that filters on all SSH
rejects so we want to know if somebody's
trying to login up into our private
subnet instances that's not supposed to
and create an alarm that says if there's
more than 10 of these in an hour do
something about it so trigger an SNS
SNS is set up to trigger an actual lambda function
and we create a lambda function
that actually takes those rejects and
their ENIs that are associated with them
grabs the source IP and figures out
what the Eni is for those and
automatically quarantines it
so this is without anything that you're doing this
is all done automatically and if for
whatever reason this source IP is not in
your space and it's not an ENI that
the Fed lambda function can account for
then wake somebody up
there's a really rich partner tool set out there
too with flow logs already
so this is an example from "sumologic"
this is their real-time network dashboard it's all
built off of flow logs
this is the dome 91
it's actually just coming out of his announced here at reinvent
this one's really nice it gives kind of a security landscape
so it maps out how
all your security groups are related to
each other and how traffic flows through
your system and then gives color-coded
indications of rejects and you can drill
down into the details on those rejects
and now with the recently a lot launched
Elasticsearch service you can build your
own very easily in just a few clicks so
you can tee off all your data into the
Elasticsearch cabana's built into it
and build your own dashboards so the the
blog link there gives you full
instructions on how to do that
so now we have our hubs who covered how
to account for all the communication
between the hubs we've got good
visibility and our security profiles
validating everything's working now we'd
like to do something about our bandwidth
bandwidth is still increasing we'd like
to leverage our corporate network we'd
like private connectivity from the AWS
regions into our corporate network so
this is bringing it all back home this
is where we start talking about mini
gigabits per second network traffic
between you and AWS you want something
more cost-effective than the actual
internet out it's being charged for all
the VPN tunnels running more predictable
latency than the public Internet we'd
like to leverage your existing corporate
network that you have and now we're in
too many accounts many VPCs
many regions so this is where direct connect
comes into play so Direct Connect is our
private fiber service where you
literally patch directly into an AWS
region and there's really only three
things you need to remember about Direct
Connect three key requirements and one
it's a physical plug somebody in a data
center has to plug a connection between
us and you you need to give us a VLAN
tag for every port you create on that
connection and you need a BGP peer for
every port that you create
it's really those three things
so just an idea of the cost perspective
of ec2 data out versus direct connect so
you can see here I've done redundant one
gigabit per second direct connect switch
cross there with ec2 data out so at
about 10 terabytes a month out data out
and then here at about 60 terabytes is
where you cross the price threshold of
to 10 gigabit per second Direct Connect
links now as I state at the bottom that's
us-west-2 data out charges and that
does not include telco costs to reach a
direct connect location if that's
required what does that mean that means
Direct Connect is something that we
establish in large colo facilities
around the world so here's the US and
what we do is in these equinix azure
core sides we go in and set up an
infrastructure footprint and run private
fiber between those kolos and a specific
region so each direct connect location
is only associated with a specific region
and you see here we have two
direct connect locations per region so if
you're already in these facilities it's
very easy to order direct connect it's
just it's just a cross connect between
you and us but if you're not in those
facilities you got to get there so if
you're here in Colorado and you want to
direct connect into the Oregon region
first of all you're going to be very
confused cuz that's not Colorado that's
Colorado come on Americans so now that
we're in Colorado and we want to
facilitate a connection to supernap
somebody's got to get us there so here's
the rest of the global footprint here in
Europe and Asia Pacific similar story
and I get these questions a lot you know
I've got mpls I've got IP VPN I've got
metro ethernet I've got wave i've got x
25 I've got frame relay I've got pigeon
carrier network
that exists Google do you support that
and the answer is yes just kind of get
the pigeon the land in the right place
so all you have to do is get to the
directly location so this is very common
so you know IP VPN network you have an
existing relationship with a telco
provider where you're running a private
IP VPN cloud so it usually looks like
this you've got your customer edge
routers and you got your provider
routers and your provider is
facilitating the actual routing so at
each of your locations you've got some
kind of ebgp peering relationship with
the provider and they're actually they
have some vrf for your network running
in their cloud that facilitates all the
routing so it's actually your provider
in this case that is facilitating the
BGP connection with us at the direct
connect location because they're already
there so it's just enabling that point
of presence on their network that
already exists I will point out here
that we've got redundant direct connects
so as soon as you run more than one
physical direct connect line into a
region we guarantee that's going to go
two distinct geography why transit
centers so as long as the same AWS account
and you create multiple connections
they'll go two separate physical
facilities and it's similar with like a
vpls so if you have a l2 service and
your providers providing a big broadcast
domain for you you know the only
difference is who's doing the routing
in this case you're going to have to facilitate that
so the eBGP session
itself will go from you or your customer edge to us the port
but that does mean that you're going to have to have unique
ports per location that you want to add to direct connect
so what does that actually look like
so here I'm depicting
a physical connection itself and how we
create multiple ports on a single direct
connect connection you know across
different accounts different VPCs so
here's our first prod hub
we've got the unique VLAN tag I talked
about that's how we cordon off the l2 connection across the pipe
keep it separate
and distinct for each VPC
7224 you'll see that a lot that's Amazon's
ASN we have advertise out for everything
the BGP announcement itself will be the
CIDR block of the VPC and the
interface IP here i put link-local you
can you can assign your private IP space
so that it's your network space all the
way through so on your end you're going
to match that tag on your interface you
can advertise a public or private ASN at this point
it's a private connection between this single VPC
so it doesn't really matter
you're going to announce whatever networks you want the VPC to know about
and same with the other ones
just the only distinct thing is that is
that VLAN tag needs to be separate for
every port you connect
so here's the route table that's now
built up on your end
and if for example your prod wanted to talk to your
dev hub doing it transfer of a database for
queuing or something like that you
notice before and our other model we
didn't have the prod hub peered to dev
for very good reasons that traffic would
flow down to you and you would
facilitate the actual routing back out
so there is no routing between VPCs
up on our end of the direct connect that
would happen on your end
now up into this point we've only been talking about
private interfaces you can actually
create a public interface over direct
connect to give you access to the public
network space in the region and it's
actually unique in the u.s. when you
create a public interface in the u.s. we
actually advertise out
all the public IP space for all the regions in the u.s.
so this is the public network so you need
to treat it as such so you'd obviously
have some security boundary between you
and us over the public interface you'd
also have to provide some kind of
NAT facility for your private network to use
this to talk over the public interface
but off we go
so the way this works in the US it makes
it a little bit unique because you can
tie into one location over direct
connect and get access to all the
regions so here we are we're tied in the us-west-1 through
the conex down in San Jose have accessed direct access to
all the resources and that but we also
have direct access to the other US
regions so if we have buckets for
example up in Oregon to access those we
go over the direct connect into
the AWS network and then over our private
backbone to the Oregon region to access
your buckets and it's similar if you had
for example on the East Coast disaster recovery VPC
now what you can't do today
is create a private interface in u.s.
west one that connects to a VPC in another region
so private interfaces
still have to connect to VPCs in the
same region but you could access public
space that's exposed for that VPC so for
example the VGW you create a VPN
connection to the unique public
endpoints for those tunnels and that
actual communication will go over our
private backbone
so a few things to remember about
the AWS direct connect and public networks
be selective in what you announced to us
you don't have to tell us everything you
know we tell you everything but that
doesn't mean you need to
only tell us what you want us to know about through
that direct connect connection because
in the US we're going to re-advertise
that out to all our other regions so if
you have for example other customers and
other regions that are running an ec2
that access you they're going to know
about you from that
direct connect advertisement so make sure you want them
to actually come back down that direct
connect pipe to reach you because
whatever you advertise to us we're going
to use that direct connect to reach
those networks reach you remember
prefix-lists from the beginning so you know I
have a lot of customers that say I want
the public interface but I only want to
use it for s3 access how do I do that
well the prefix-list will tell you what S3 is
so you can query the prefix list
get the block for s3 and only allow that
out over the public interface now
obviously keep in mind that i like i
said the prefix list changes so have
some kind of process in place that's
constantly on a regular basis checking
that the previous list stays up-to-date
so what we advertise to you is actually
available through JSON so you can access
it programmatically it has the full list
of all of our public IPs and you can
also subscribe to an SNS topic to notify
you when it when any of those change and
that's actually relatively new
so going global so now
we've got our location in Seattle
we're tied into the Oregon region
and now we want to bring online the London region
so if you've already got your existing MPLS network
this is very easy you're just adding another
point on your existing network and so
now you have point-to-point connectivity
between all these locations but there
are a few things a few caveats you
should keep in mind when you start tying
in multiple
regions and the first one is one of
those hard requirements i mentioned the
beginning and that's 100 routes so
they're route tables in VPC
are limited to 100 so we won't take anymore so
if you have lots of networks on your cloud
on your mpls cloud
lots of prefixes you'll want to
summarize those or you'll want your
provider to actually give us a default
route and in the opposite direction as
soon as you start attaching multiple
regions you're going to start seeing the
Amazon ASN come in from different places
that obviously causes some problems for
BGP because for example
the direct connect out of there in london is
going to see a network come in from its
own ASN and BGP by default is going to
see that as a routing loop and it's
going to drop it so as soon as you bring
in multiple regions you're going to have
to do a little BGP override so this is
where you strip off those ASNs to allow
this communication to be facilitated and
allow different regions to talk to each
other that have the same ASN over your network
so i just gave an example of
how you would do that in both Junos and Cisco
and that's something either you're going to
have to do to the router
spacing off to us in the direct connect
location or your provider is going to
have to do for you so here we are we've
got branches and headquarters and
regions and everything tied into your
existing corporate network everybody's
happy and everybody can talk in the end
and some of you are saying yet Rob
that's a very pretty picture but I don't
actually have a global corporate network
backbone is there anything you can do
for me so I have lots of customers that
are either in the cloud or don't have
existing you know global networks that
want to still facilitate connections
between all the VPCs around the regions
so cross region network between
all VPCs is our new requirement we want
a scalable, full-mesh, IPSec network
between all of our VPCs
we want minimal operational overhead
you want to leverage the AWS network
and not some network that we
already have many AWS accounts
many VPCs in many regions
so this is what I call the monster mush
so we're going to bring in Cisco for this and a VPN
design framework they pioneered about a
decade ago now called dynamic
multi-point VPN so cisco offers the
Cisco cloud services router on
AWS marketplace this is something you
can point and click and launch can bring
your own license you can pay per
hour and it's the full cisco software
stack so it's exactly the same as what
you would have in your enterprise data
centers and like i said this is
something that's been around for a long
time in the telco circles but for
whatever reason it's not something we've
talked about a lot as far as cloud
interconnectivity so dmvpn is enabled by
a few key technologies the first is
multi-point GRE so the difference
between multi-point GRE and regular GRE
that you don't have to designate a
destination and you can facilitate many
tunnels over the same virtual interface
and the real magic in dmvpn is provided
by what we call next hop resolution
protocol and we'll talk about exactly
what that does for us in the
establishment of what we want is dynamic
tunnels that we don't have to statically
configure and finally IPSec obviously
running on top to provide the security
and encryption for all of our tunnels so
here we go dmvpn has gone through a few
iterations over the years the latest is
called phase 3 so i'm going to focus in
on how phase 3 actually works so here we
have our inner hrp hub running in
us-west-2 and we bring up our first spoke
so what happens is the spoke is
configured to talk to the hub it
registers with the hub
and association of its physical public
IP with its virtual tunnel interface so
that the hub actually now knows how
to find it over those it also exchanges
routing information at this point so you
need to be running some kind of dynamic
routing protocol eigrp if your cisco
shop ospf bgp they all work as more
spokes come up this starts to resemble a
very traditional hub-and-spoke network
and it actually is at this point so the
next hop for all of your routing
protocol is going to say the hub itself
and the hub itself is going to be the
one either rebroadcasting all the
network advertisements or broadcasting a
summary if that's what you want but
what's unique is what happens when spoke
one here tries to communicate with spoke
to its next hop is the hub itself for
the first packet is going to hit the hub
that's going to trigger an nhrp response
that's kind of like an ICMP redirect and
it's going to tell that spoke there's
actually a much better way to get there
and here's how you do it so that's
called nhrp redirect so the spoke at
that point is going to guess is going to
say okay I'm going to create a nhrp
request to figure out how this is going
to work with the details you've given me
which is the details of spoke 2
so he's going to send a request packet out to
spoke 2 that's still going to go over
the hub traditional networking
but spoke 2 now receives it and
initiates a dynamic tunnel build to spoke 1
and at the same time they both cache the
details of how this was created so it
starts to become as this builds up like
a peer-to-peer network so this point if
any spoke wants to talk to any other
spoke that first packet is going to go
through the hub and then after that a
dynamic tunnel is going to get built and
the network's can talk straight to each
other so I know what you're saying now
you've seen this movie before this is
the point where the hub fails and
everybody dies well unfortunately nhrp
like I've said it's been around for a
while and it's got a very robust
redundancy and I could spend a whole
hour just talking about redundancy
models and designs for NHRP
but in here I went with a fairly
standard and a very simple design is
just put in another hub it works the
same way you can figure every spoke to
talk to two hubs so now they're
registered with both so now it's up to
your routing protocol itself to
determine the ideal path so each spoke
is going to see the network the same
networks from two different places and
this is why i put this hub in a
geographically dispersed location
because it makes it much easier to make
that routing decision if you put the
hubs in the same physical location where
their network pass are very similar
there's still lots of ways to do it
there's priorities there's a you can set
priorities on the hub themselves there's
lots of different ways just create nhrp
redundancy so I want to emphasize how
simple this is you know this is to get
around how we used to do hub-and-spoke
or how we used to do full mesh IPSec you
know the hub became the bottleneck
because you can only support a certain
number of spokes and it was a central
point of mass communication everything I
had to go through the hub and if you're
talking about ipsec that means you're
decrypting the tunnel and turn around
creating another tunnel and in mesh it's
the opposite every time you add another
point of presence on your mesh you have
to go around and touch every endpoint
and create a new interface and new
configuration new crypto maps all that
fun dmvpn is dead simple this is
literally the entire configuration on
the hub for dmvpn and the only
difference between this and the other
hub is the tunnel interface IP and on
the spokes themselves is the same idea
the only thing I change is the IP of the
tunnel if race itself copy paste launch
new spoke so here we are back at the
from the beginning bring in regional
headquarters branches and with dmvpn the
footprints very light so we're talking
mobile workforce I have customers who
run like Cisco 800 series from their
houses and participate in the
full IPSec mesh between all their VPCs and
all their corporate networks and points
of presence so to end off I do something
a little fun
this does not fit the disclaimer from
the beginning my customers are not doing
this but i want to emphasize some of the
flexibility and the ways that these
tools are all put together hopefully
this will give you a few light bulbs to
go home with and think about how you can
start using a lot of these tools we
talked about today so this is using a
demo with the echo to interface with
your network i'm going to roll the
credits to show all the different design
requirements that we've gone through and
alexa load my AWS security report here
is your AWS flash security briefing for
the last 24 hours you have to read
alerts from your oregon production VPC
alert number one at 346 am a creator out
api call was issued on the public subnet
route table by user Hal 9000 this change
was out of the network change management
window and was automatically rolled back
alert number two at six thirty four p.m.
the unauthorized ssh metric was breached
10 ssh attempts were made against
production database host prod sequel one
from a single internal source of IP 154
dot 3421 eight the elastic network
interface ID for this address has been
added to the daily security review list
you also have five yellow alerts i've
sent all of your yellow alert summaries
to your email for review Alexa what is
your favorite color Dave I'm afraid I
can't answer that Monty Python jokes
just don't get the same laughs anymore i
also want to open any pop bay doors for
you so don't bother asking me you got
that fun right what's the word of is not fun